have you ever wondered why pencils are
yellow and pool tables Green even if you
haven't today you'll find out how it all
came to be
why pool tables are green pool those
centuries back royalties used it to play
outside on the grass as years went by
the game slowly moved indoors on wooden
tables and the outdoorsy version was
forgotten
at first the decision was to use a green
cloth on top to make the table surface
resemble grass but when pool became a
sport and was aired on TV the green
cloths made it harder for the viewer to
see some of the balls the cloth color
was then switched to blue since then
blue cloth became the norm for
tournaments and then private tables do
why keyboards have markings if you look
at your computer keyboard you'll see two
ridges on the F and J Keys those help
you position your hands and find the
correct keys without looking the trend
started decades ago when people started
taking typing courses learn to use all
10 fingers while positioning their index
fingers on the F and J Keys why you yawn
now folks used to believe that people
yawn because their body needs to take in
more oxygen but that theory was revised
in a 2014 physiological research
scientists studied 120 individuals and
found that yawning happened more in the
summer and less in the winter it's the
brain's immediate response to regulating
its temperature when it gets high
yawning also helps you wake up the
movement stretches your lungs and let
your body flex both the joints and
muscles
another study explains that contagious
yawning in humans has to do with empathy
why you snore when you're sleeping and
not when you're awake well that happens
because air can't move freely through
your nose or throat that causes tissues
to vibrate
hence your dinosaur-like sound it
doesn't happen when you're awake because
the muscles in your throat hold the
airway wide open to allow smooth airflow
but during sleep those muscles relax and
your airway shrinks
why taxis are yellow at the dawn of this
mode of transportation John Hurt's
the founder of one company in New York
purchased several dozen used cars for
his business to make the vehicle stand
out he painted them yellow after reading
a study by the University of Chicago
which said this color was the most
visible from a distance in Europe yellow
cabs had already toured the streets but
their career was short-lived however in
2013 green painted cabs appeared in the
city through GPS analysis the taxi
Commission found that some areas in New
York had limited access to taxis so
green vehicles called borough taxis
picked up passengers from those left out
areas to fill in the gaps
why do calculators have solar cells the
first solar calculator hit the shelves
in the late 1970s back then scientists
began experimenting with cheaper solar
cells than the ones used on satellites
calculators were among the first
products to have them to boast how
little power they needed to work in the
1990s companies announced that more
solar power goods would soon come out
but they never did the technology moved
to larger products such as lights and
highway signs why do some sport coats
have elbow patches originally sport
coats were made to be worn outdoors for
sports
they had pieces of fabric in the elbows
because it was easier and cheaper to
replace just those parts than buy a
brand-new coat later
university professors and teachers began
wearing them the patches came in handy
when the elbows rubbed against the desk
and riding board
traditionally they were made of leather
suede or heavy wool but today the
patches are for aesthetic purposes why
notebooks have page margins in the olden
days paper was a sweet treat for rats
mice and other rodents to avoid losing
valuable information from books and
notebooks people began leaving empty
spaces around the edges that's where
most of the damage occurred later when
notebooks were printed the margins
stayed for notes
and comments in books the spaces became
a norm for both printing purposes and to
prevent the information from being lost
because of regular wear and tear
why toothpaste tubes have color bars on
them there's a myth that the colored
rectangles have something to do with the
ingredients of the toothpaste ah but the
color bars are there in fact to indicate
to the machines where the package must
be cut folded and sealed different color
codes are used for different packaging
machines hmm I like the other story
better
how plato was created when this putty
first came out it was intended as a
wallpaper cleaner that removes soot from
the open fireplace but soon vinyl
wallpapers came out and the demand for
the product dropped someone in the
inventors family read a newspaper
article about making crafts using the
cleaning putty they tested it with some
kids in the kindergarten they loved it
and then the product was rebranded as
the beloved play-doh why post-it notes
are yellow now their inventor was trying
to create a very strong long-lasting
adhesive but ended up with a low-tech
glue instead while trying to promote his
invention without success his colleague
suggested using it to temporarily stick
bookmarks in his books and bingo post-it
notes appeared the yellow color occurred
coincidentally because the lab next to
them only had yellow scrap paper
yt comes in tea bags hey why not a golf
bag you have to tee off anyway yeah
that's a stretch when the beverage was
first commercialized the tea was placed
in hand-sewn fabric bags in 1908 a tea
and coffee importer from New York
shipped his silk tea bags around the
world to enjoy the beverage customers
had to remove the tea leaves from the
bags but they were unaware of this and
started brewing the tea in the sulfur
bags they loved it so much that it
became the norm and everyone enjoyed tea
this way it took another 20 years for
the first teabag machine to come out
though why coffee mugs have grew
placed in the dishwasher mugs are
supposed to be upside down cleaning
water starts spraying on top and below
them to make them shine a manufacturing
company saw that when people took the
mugs out of the dishwater water would
accumulate on the top and drip all over
them so they came up with a tiny groove
on the side to allow water to escape why
microwaves have black dots if you take a
close look at your microwave door hmm
you'll see a black mesh border with tiny
dots on it those act as a shield to
block electromagnetic fields stopping
the radiation from getting through and
cooking you but it still allows you to
see what's happening think of how a
coffee filter holds the coffee dregs
what allows the liquid to escape oh I
like that one why pencils are yellow
traditional pencils have been yellow
since the 1900s that was when a company
in Europe introduced their Kohinoor
brand which was named after a diamond
that inspired the diamond shape of the
pencils during that time pencils were
painted a dark color or not at all
usually the paint was to cover up
imperfections in the wood to make them
stand out Kohinoor painted them yellow
the color also suggested that the
excellent quality graphite used in the
product came from Siberia since the
geographical location was close to China
it's believed that it also represents
happiness glory and wisdom why puzzles
were made the first puzzle came out in
the 18th century by John Spilsbury a map
maker and engraver he mounted his maps
on a piece of hard wood and cut around
the borders of the countries this was
intended to be an educational game that
helped British students learn geography
jigsaw puzzles came around almost a
century later when fret saws became the
dominant tools for cutting the shapes
all pieces had unique forms so you
couldn't fit a wrong piece in the wrong
place
my keyboards aren't in alphabetical
order when the typewriter first came out
the keys were arranged in alphabetical
order but when someone typed really fast
the keys got stuck together
that's when Christopher Shoals and his
partner James Densmore spent five years
trying to fix the problem by placing
commonly used letter pairs apart to
avoid jams later they sold the patent to
a typewriter manufacturing business and
soon the company brought out the famous
QWERTY keyboard that we still use today
why you have gunk in your eyes when you
wake up your eyes constantly produce
tears and some mucus for protection and
hydration every time you blink your eyes
you flush out the mucous and particles
during sleep you keep producing tears
and the yucky gum but without the
blinking it just accumulates there
why motorcycles don't have reverse most
writers have no difficulty backing up a
bike with their feet if there was a
reverse gear it would hardly ever get
used because moving a motorcycle a car
linked backward is no fuss
also it would become more complex since
going backwards on two wheels is harder
and more unstable adding that feature
would add more weight to the bike and
therefore slow it down there are few
heavier models with reverse gears though
because it's harder on the rider alone
to carry the weight backwards that's my
story and I'm sticking to it